Add 389-DS Deployment and Align Style (#372)
SUSE/doc-caasp: adoc/admin-security-ldap.adoc

== Configuring An External LDAP Server

{productname> supports user authentication via external LDAP server like 389 Directory Server and Active Directory by updating the builtin Dex LDAP connector configuration.

=== Deploy an External 389 Directory Server with Automatically Generated Self-signed Certificate

The 389 Directory Server image `registry.suse.com/caasp/v4/389-ds:beta` will automatically generated self-signed certificate and key. 389 Directory Server can be deployed with customized configuration and container command:

. Prepare customized 389 Directory configuration to enter in Terminal:
+
----
INSTANCE_NAME=localhost                       # Directory Server Name
ROOT_DN="cn=admin,dc=example,dc=org"          # Admin Account
ROOT_PASSWORD=                                # Admin Password
SUFFIX="dc=example,dc=org"                    # Suffix
DATA_DIR=<PWD>/389_ds_data                    # Directory Server Data
IMAGE=registry.suse.com/caasp/v4/389-ds:beta  # Container Image 
----

. Execute `docker` command to deploy 389 Directory Server. This will start non-TLS (389) and TLS (636) protocols together with automatically self-signed cert and key.
+

> ----

Reviewer: together with generated self-signed certificate and key.

docker run --rm -it \
	-p 389:389 \
	-p 636:636 \
	-e INSTANCE_NAME=<INSTANCE_NAME> \
	-e ROOT_DN=<ROOT_DN> \
	-e ROOT_PASSWORD=<ROOT_PASSWORD> \
	-e SUFFIX=<SUFFIX> \
	-v <DATA_DIR>:/data \
	--name 389-ds <IMAGE>
----

=== 389 Directory Server with LDAPS

The 389 Directory Server image `registry.suse.org/caasp/v4/389-ds:beta` will automatically generated self-signed certificate and key.  User can choose to replace their own certificate with following actions:

> . Exit running container:

Author: Need to stop container. otherwise, when we trying to stop/restart ns-ldap process will cause container to exit.

== Configuring An External LDAP Server

{productname> supports user authentication via external LDAP server like 389 Directory Server and Active Directory by updating the builtin Dex LDAP connector configuration.

> === Deploy an External 389 Directory Server with Automatically Generated Self-signed Certificate

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
=== Deploying an external 389 Directory Server with an automatically generated self-signed certificate
```

> The 389 Directory Server image `registry.suse.com/caasp/v4/389-ds:1.4.0` will automatically generate self-signed certificate and key. 389 Directory Server can be deployed with customized configuration and container command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The 389 Directory Server image `registry.suse.com/caasp/v4/389-ds:1.4.0` will automatically generate a self-signed certificate and key. 389 Directory Server can be deployed with customized configuration and container command:
```

> . Prepare customized 389 Directory configuration to enter in Terminal:

Author: We are trying to run the external 389-ds container using docker. These are "<variable>=<value>" user

+
----
INSTANCE_NAME=localhost                       # Directory Server Name
ROOT_DN="cn=admin,dc=example,dc=org"          # Admin Account
ROOT_PASSWORD=                                # Admin Password
SUFFIX="dc=example,dc=org"                    # Suffix

> DATA_DIR=<PWD>/389_ds_data                    # Directory Server Data

Reviewer 3: Some are environmental variable used for setup and some are just sample variables.
Suggest to have separate list of environmental variables used for setup.

IMAGE=registry.suse.com/caasp/v4/389-ds:1.4.0   # Container Image 
----

> . Execute `docker` command to deploy 389 Directory Server. This will start non-TLS port (389) and TLS port (636) together with automatically self-signed certificate and key.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Execute `docker` command to deploy 389 Directory Server. This will start a non-TLS port (389) and a TLS port (636) together with an automatically self-signed certificate and key.
```

+
----
docker run -d \
	-p 389:389 \
	-p 636:636 \
	-e INSTANCE_NAME=<INSTANCE_NAME> \
	-e ROOT_DN=<ROOT_DN> \
	-e ROOT_PASSWORD=<ROOT_PASSWORD> \
	-e SUFFIX=<SUFFIX> \
	-v <DATA_DIR>:/data \
	--name 389-ds <IMAGE>
----

> === Deploy 389 Directory Server with external certificate

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
=== Deploying a 389 Directory Server with an external certificate
```

> User can choose to replace their own certificate with following actions:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To replace the certificate with your own, follow these steps:
```

> . Stop running container:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Stop running containers:
```

Author: only one container.

+
----

> docker stop 389-ds

Reviewer 2: Just out of interest - we aren't using Docker anymore, why does this contain docker commands?

Author: It is external deployment, user can use docker or podman. Maybe we should change all to podman

Reviewer: Yes, this deployment is not part of v4. Using docker as example should be fine for now.

Reviewer: Yes, this deployment is not part of v4. Using docker as example should be fine for now.

----

> . Copy external certificate `<rootCA.pem>` to mounted data directory `<DATA_DIR>/config/``

Reviewer 3: Remove extra backtick after <DATA_DIR>/config/.

> . Copy external certificate `<rootCA.pem>` to mounted data directory `<DATA_DIR>/config/`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Copy external certificate you would like to use `<rootCA.pem>` to a mounted data directory `<DATA_DIR>/config/`
```

> . Bash into container with previous mounted data direcory:

Reviewer 2: I am not sure what you mean by this. These are bash commands the user should execute in the mounted directory?

Author: Yes, we are running an external 389-ds container.

+
----
docker run --rm -it \
  -p 389:389 \
  -p 636:636 \
  -v <DATA_DIR>:/data \
  --entrypoint /bin/bash \

>   --name 389-ds <IMAGE>

Reviewer 2: What do you mean by <IMAGE> replaceable? Can you please provide an example of what should go here?

Author: User should change "DATA_DIR" to "/data"

Reviewer 2: sorry, I meant the image replaceable

----

> . List certificate in `/etc/dirsrv/slapd-<INSTANCE_NAME>`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. List certificates in `/etc/dirsrv/slapd-<INSTANCE_NAME>`
```

+
----
certutil -L -d /etc/dirsrv/slapd-<INSTANCE_NAME> -f pwdfile.txt
----
+
----

> ---- SAMPLE ----

Reviewer 2: I'm guessing this is example output?

Author: yes

Certificate Nickname                                         Trust Attributes
                                                             SSL,S/MIME,JAR/XPI
 
Self-Signed-CA                                               CT,,
Server-Cert                                                  u,u,u
----

> . List key in `/etc/dirsrv/slapd-<INSTANCE_NAME>`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. List keys in `/etc/dirsrv/slapd-<INSTANCE_NAME>`
```

+
----
certutil -K -d /etc/dirsrv/slapd-<INSTANCE_NAME> -f pwdfile.txt
----
+
----
---- SAMPLE ----
certutil: Checking token "NSS Certificate DB" in slot "NSS User Private Key and Certificate Services"
< 0> rsa      6d4f98efe45328ff852b7e2ca5a24ad46844163a   NSS Certificate DB:Server-Cert
----

> . Delete Existing CA and Certificate in `/etc/dirsrv/slapd-<INSTANCE_NAME>`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Delete the existing CA and certificate in `/etc/dirsrv/slapd-<INSTANCE_NAME>`
```

+
----
certutil -D -d /etc/dirsrv/slapd-<INSTANCE_NAME> -n Self-Signed-CA
certutil -F -k 6d4f98efe45328ff852b7e2ca5a24ad46844163a -d /etc/dirsrv/slapd-<INSTANCE_NAME> -f pwdfile.txt
----

. Import certificate in `/etc/dirsrv/slapd-<INSTANCE_NAME>`
+
----

> openssl pkcs12 -export -inkey <KEY.PEM> -in <CERT.PEM> -out <CERT.PK12> -nodes -name "Server-Cert"

Reviewer 2: It is not clear to me what <CERT.PK1> means. Maybe I just missed that somewhere, could you please add that?

Author: CERT.PK12 is certificate in pkcs12 format.

Reviewer: Clark, can u update to add some description for the variables? Like u did before.

pk12util -i <CERT.PK12> -d /etc/dirsrv/slapd-<INSTANCE_NAME>
----

. Import rootCA in `/etc/dirsrv/slapd-<INSTANCE_NAME>`
+
----
certutil -A -d /etc/dirsrv/slapd-<INSTANCE_NAME> -n "CA certificate" -t "CT,," -i <rootCA.pem>
----

. Exit container

. Execute `docker` command to run 389 Directory Server with previous mounted directory:
+
----
docker run -d \
	-p 389:389 \
	-p 636:636 \
	-e INSTANCE_NAME=<INSTANCE_NAME> \
	-e ROOT_DN=<ROOT_DN> \
	-e ROOT_PASSWORD=<ROOT_PASSWORD> \

> 	-e SUFFIX=<SUFFIX> \

Reviewer 2: what is the suffix?

Author: it is domain suffix, for example "dc=example,dc=com"

== Configuring An External LDAP Server

> {productname> supports user authentication via external LDAP server like 389 Directory Server and Active Directory by updating the builtin Dex LDAP connector configuration.

Reviewer 3: Typo, {productname}

=== Deploying an external 389 Directory Server with an automatically generated self-signed certificate

The 389 Directory Server image `registry.suse.com/caasp/v4/389-ds:1.4.0` will automatically generate a self-signed certificate and key. 389 Directory Server can be deployed with customized configuration and container command:

. Prepare customized 389 Directory configuration to enter in Terminal:
+
----
INSTANCE_NAME=localhost                         # Directory Server Name
ROOT_DN="cn=admin,dc=example,dc=org"            # Admin Account
ROOT_PASSWORD=                                  # Admin Password
SUFFIX="dc=example,dc=org"                      # Domain Suffix
DATA_DIR=<PWD>/389_ds_data                      # Directory Server Data on Host Machine to Mount
----

> . Execute `docker` command to deploy 389 Directory Server in same Termimal. This will start a non-TLS port (389) and a TLS port (636) together with an automatically self-signed certificate and key.

Reviewer 3: Typo, change Termimal to Terminal.

. List certificates in `/etc/dirsrv/slapd-<INSTANCE_NAME>`
+
----
certutil -L -d /etc/dirsrv/slapd-<INSTANCE_NAME> -f pwdfile.txt
----
+
----
---- SAMPLE ----
Certificate Nickname                                         Trust Attributes
                                                             SSL,S/MIME,JAR/XPI
 
Self-Signed-CA                                               CT,,
Server-Cert                                                  u,u,u
----

. List key in `/etc/dirsrv/slapd-<INSTANCE_NAME>`
+
----
certutil -K -d /etc/dirsrv/slapd-<INSTANCE_NAME> -f pwdfile.txt
----
+
----
---- SAMPLE ----
certutil: Checking token "NSS Certificate DB" in slot "NSS User Private Key and Certificate Services"
< 0> rsa      6d4f98efe45328ff852b7e2ca5a24ad46844163a   NSS Certificate DB:Server-Cert
----

. Delete the existing CA and certificate in `/etc/dirsrv/slapd-<INSTANCE_NAME>`
+
----
certutil -D -d /etc/dirsrv/slapd-<INSTANCE_NAME> -n Self-Signed-CA
certutil -F -k 6d4f98efe45328ff852b7e2ca5a24ad46844163a -d /etc/dirsrv/slapd-<INSTANCE_NAME> -f pwdfile.txt
----

. Import certificate in `/etc/dirsrv/slapd-<INSTANCE_NAME>`
+
----
# KEY.PEM       Input key
# CERT.PEM      Input certificate 

> # CERT.PK12     Output certifcate in pkcs12

Reviewer 3: Typo, certificate

DATA_DIR=<PWD>/389_ds_data                      # Directory Server Data on Host Machine to Mount
----

. Execute `docker` command to deploy 389 Directory Server in same Terminal. This will start a non-TLS port (389) and a TLS port (636) together with an automatically self-signed certificate and key.
+
----
docker run -d \
	-p 389:389 \
	-p 636:636 \
	-e INSTANCE_NAME=<INSTANCE_NAME> \
	-e ROOT_DN=<ROOT_DN> \
	-e ROOT_PASSWORD=<ROOT_PASSWORD> \
	-e SUFFIX=<SUFFIX> \
	-v <DATA_DIR>:/data \
	--name 389-ds registry.suse.com/caasp/v4/389-ds:1.4.0
----

=== Deploying a 389 Directory Server with an external certificate

To replace the certificate with your own, follow these steps:

. Stop running container:
+
----
docker stop 389-ds
----

. Copy external certificate you would like to use `<rootCA.pem>` to a mounted data directory `<DATA_DIR>/config/`

. Run bash in entrypoint to access container with mounted data directory from previous step:
+
----
docker run --rm -it \
  -p 389:389 \
  -p 636:636 \
  -v <DATA_DIR>:/data \
  --entrypoint /bin/bash \
  --name 389-ds registry.suse.com/caasp/v4/389-ds:1.4.0
----

. List certificates in `/etc/dirsrv/slapd-<INSTANCE_NAME>`
+
----

> certutil -L -d /etc/dirsrv/slapd-<INSTANCE_NAME> -f pwdfile.txt

Reviewer 3: User needs to be in instance directory to access pwdfile.txt. Suggest to use full path.

      nameAttr: sAMAccountName
----

base64 encoded PEM file can be generated by
----

> $ cat <root-ca-pem-file> | base64 | awk '{print>' ORS='' && echo

Reviewer 3: Change `{print>` to `{print}`
